# Linux Productivity Tools

## Description

This is a repository of bash scripts that I use to boost my productivity in Linux. Each script contains an introductory description and an abundance of comments to help you understand. Here I list just a rough overview of each script so that you can easily tell which scripts are relevant to you:

 1. `BBBNetworkConfig.sh`: set up network sharing between the Linux PC and the BeagleBone Black (goal: be able to access the internet from the BeagleBone Black when it is connected to the computer via USB).
 2. `make_snapshot.sh`: a backup scheme using `rsync` which allows to backup a source directory to whatever destination with support for the [grandfather-father-son](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backup_rotation_scheme#Grandfather-father-son) type of backup scheme. By default, this script backups up `/` (i.e. the full system) to `/root/backup/backups/acer_laptop` (which may correspond to the directory of a mounted external hard drive) and supports hourly, daily, weekly and monthly backups with an optionally varying amount (up to 100) of historical snapshots kept for each. Thanks to the use of hard links, keeping historical snapshots is memory efficient (only "new" data occupies extra space between snapshots). The script can be used together with `cron` and `anacron` Linux utilities in order to fully automate your backups. This script is quite general, please see the long introductory description inside it for a deeper overview.
 3. `screenlayout/`: directory containing bash scripts generated by `ARandR` (Another XRandR GUI) for activating different display configurations of my dual-monitor setup.
 4. `ROS_catkin_json_compilation_db.sh`: add the `DCMAKE_EXPORT_COMPILE_COMMANDS=ON` flag to [catkin_tools](http://catkin-tools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) such that JSON compilation databases are created for each ROS package when running `catkin build`. These can be used by Emacs' [flycheck-irony](https://github.com/Sarcasm/flycheck-irony) and [company-irony](https://github.com/Sarcasm/company-irony) to have correct code linting and autocompletion when editing the source files of your ROS packages. Detailed usage instructions are in comments of this script.

## System requirements

I am running Linux Mint 18 MATE 64-bit. First line of `bash --version` output:
```
GNU bash, version 4.3.42(1)-release (x86_64-pc-linux-gnu)
```
